[Music]
Well, hopefully this all works.
>> Yeah, hopefully.
>> It's going to trip me out looking at my
computer and not seeing the mic audio
move.
>> Yeah, I was already freaked out by that,
but that's how it's set up. As long as
you're seeing things on my
>> Yeah, it's showing up on the Zoom.
>> Yeah, it doesn't need to show up big
because again, that can all be dealt
with in post.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, this is going to annoy me.
>> There we go. I feel better.
>> Cool.
>> Breaking in the new mic. Anyways,
>> yeah, let me know your
>> This is all part of the intro. Okay,
>> let's be real. Make it fun.
>> Okay. Yeah. Um, who am I? For those who
don't know, who am I here with, what do
you do?
>> You're in my studio, man.
>> I was going to ask you who you are. But,
uh, I guess if this is your first time
hearing of me, I'm Theo. I normally look
taller, but I'm in the short chair. And
I gave him the tall one. Kind
>> look taller.
>> Yeah. I talk about software dev stuff on
YouTube. I run a company. I do a lot of
investing. I'm just kind of all of the
SF stereotypes in one, but I also
skateboard.
>> So, speaking of like SF, like you've
been here for what, eight years now?
>> Roughly. Yeah.
>> That's insane. Like, what do you like
about the city in terms of like being
here as a builder? Do you think like a
lot of people should like move here?
>> I'm going to reframe it slightly first.
I will answer that. But where else would
I be?
>> Good question. I mean, where'd you grow
up?
>> Massachusetts. And my family moved out
when I graduated.
>> Okay. So, they're all here then?
Nice.
>> You should know how this mic works. You
got to be close to it.
>> Yeah, true.
>> So, uh, yeah, when I graduated high
school, I went to college in New York.
They stayed like two more years. My
sister was finishing high school, but
once like the day my sister graduated,
they had closed the house and moved out.
Like, they were done with Massachusetts.
They all moved to Maine. So,
>> Maine.
>> Yeah. So, I have no ties to
Massachusetts whatsoever. I don't really
have ties to Maine. I barely spent any
time there. I This is the closest thing
I have to a home. So, I don't have
anywhere else I would be.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. In terms of like for example like
a lot of engineers that are just
graduating, they're thinking of making
the move to San Francisco. Um, a lot of
them are like tied down by either visa
issues or things like family. Do you
think it's worth like forgoing all that
and just coming here?
>> Get the job first. Like it makes all of
those things significantly easier. I
didn't move here without a job. It
wasn't a great offer because I still had
the like contract to hire offer at
Twitch that I had to grind through to
get a real job. So I had to cover my
moving expenses myself. It's funny. I
got a signing bonus for the like move
and stuff 6 months after I got here. So,
I just like had to go into debt for
that. I sold my car to cover it really.
But, yeah, it was fine. I haven't owned
a car for eight years. It's been
awesome.
>> That's a that's a lot of like do you
think do you feel like that's a lot of
risk compared to what a lot of people
are willing to do to like get into the
right place? Like being able to go into
debt to furnish an apartment to move
somewhere different.
>> I didn't furnish the apartment. That was
just for covering the flights in the
first month of rent.
>> Wow. No, I was sleeping on the floor for
a couple weeks. I I don't care. I trying
to remember where to put this.
I had to be here and I had a job here.
The job was going to pay me 120k a year.
Going into debt temporarily just like
borrowing money from my parents. I would
have done it from a bank otherwise. I
never really racked up any money on
credit cards. I could have done that
too, but I had the offer and I had the
expectation I would be at the office on
this day. The money was there. It just
wasn't in my bank account yet.
going into debt to get out here when you
don't have that
like I knew this week I would have this
much money wired to my bank account
that's not really debt almost feels bad
using that word for that
>> right
>> I did not take risk coming out here the
biggest risk I took was the fact that
the place I was going to live when I
moved out here last second changed their
insurance policy so I couldn't have
animals there and I was flying out with
my cats so I had to couch crash for like
my first monthish here between friends
places before I could get my spot ironed
out.
>> Right. And you started off at Twitch
when you first moved here. And I
remember one of your videos you
mentioned that when you first started
Twitch, you practically knew nothing or
you were not the best engineer.
>> What's funny is I knew quite a bit, but
I was a terrible engineer.
>> How does that work? How does the
difference work between that?
>> I knew all about technology, but I
didn't know how to apply it at a
company. like doing day-to-day work like
code reviewing, actually shipping,
making the right changes, knowing how on
call works, just like all these details.
It's stuff you have to learn by doing
it. And
you're not going to get that experience
by just moving out here and sitting at
tables with people who do it. You get
that experience by being in the
trenches. You got to be in the trenches.
If being out here makes it easier to get
there, maybe I could see that. But
honestly, get the job first. I can't
tell you how many companies I'm talking
to that are desperate to hire engineers
NSF.
Not as in they're already here, but
they're willing to move here. Almost all
of them are okay with getting someone to
move here and helping them out with the
cost, helping them out with the visa and
stuff. I don't know any companies that
are down to hire for remote right now.
If they were, they've already filled
those roles. So, like, if you're trying
to get a job in tech right now, the job
will bring you here.
>> But don't don't move here looking for a
job. Look for jobs that move you here.
>> Right. Do do you feel like on that topic
of jobs, do you feel like there's sort
of a short squeeze where companies feel
like they can't find the right
engineers, but engineers feel like they
can't get a job no matter what? And it's
sort of like this uh this sort of
juxtaposition on both sides that neither
can find each other.
This is a hard one to answer without
getting cancelled, so I'm just going to
eat it. Um,
the engineers that are struggling to
find a job are not the engineers that I
talk to. Okay?
>> Like that's the best I can put it. The
even the like fresh out of college, even
the fresh out of high school kids in my
community, like there aren't many of
them, but the ones that are there are
all [__] exceptional. I really don't
know many people that are struggling to
get a gig
because like I don't know how to put
this. to be in my circle and to like be
with my crew and to be one of the people
I respond to in DMs. You kind of have to
know your [__]
>> right?
>> Like
there there's a cart before the horse
here thing that I see a lot where people
and I talk about like the open source
thing all the time. I have a video, I
don't know if you've seen it, the stop
contributing to open source.
>> Okay,
>> it's one of my favorite videos I've ever
done. I am so tired of this idea that
like if you get your name on the right
repo on GitHub and you win a hackathon
and you have a website that's cool and a
resume that sounds good, you'll just
magically be gifted a job. it just
appears out of the sky. Nothing [__]
works that way. On top of that, it's
polluted GitHub and open source
contribution to all hell because people
are convinced that there's this magic
set of things that will get them this
job and the world does not work that
way. And the problem with this is that
open source contributions are a really
good cart to have behind the horse. When
the horse is writing code and doing
things of meaning and then you run into
a problem with a tool that you're using,
you realize that you can fix this. Or
maybe you can just cut an issue to
describe it in detail or you see
somebody else's issue and you're the one
who drops the repro and the like
replies. That's all awesome. That means
you're a real engineer solving real
problems and know how to look into the
details. That makes you more hirable.
When people say contribute to open
source, that's not what they mean,
>> right?
>> They mean spamming PRs with random [__]
hoping that someone accidentally clicks
merch. Okay. So, cart before the horse.
Horse is actually getting out there,
getting real experience, building real
things.
>> You mentioned being in the trenches is
how you sort of learn to like
>> build that doing [__] habit. For those
kids, for example, those high school
students that are in your community,
they're in your circle that have that
experience, that have that cart, that
horse. Um, how do they go about doing
it? Right? It's obviously not as easy
for them to hop into like a job.
>> I almost feel like I shouldn't talk
about this because it will cause the
problem I'm describing here. It's like
if it walks like a duck and it sounds
like a duck and it quacks like a duck,
it's probably an imposttor.
>> Okay?
>> Like that's the problem I see is if
you're given the characteristics of what
a good engineer looks like, you'll copy
all of the characteristics, but now
you're just cosplaying,
>> right?
>> Like it's it doesn't work that way. You
have to care and you can't you can't
just magically end up there. I'm going
to give an analogy that might not
resonate with the people watching, but I
think will resonate with you. A place I
see this a lot is what I call cosplaying
as a CEO.
>> Okay?
>> Where a person just raised a bunch of
money through whatever firms, whatever
angels, whoever else they got the money
from. They suddenly have like $4 million
in the bank for their startup that has
no users yet.
>> Okay?
>> They want to feel like a real boss of a
real company,
>> right?
>> So, they do some marketing, they put out
the product, they get a little trickle
of users, but not much. That feels
really bad when you compare the like
attention that your company is getting
to the amount of money that you raised
and where you should be and where you
think you should be.
>> So you start finding other metrics to
bump like how many employees you have,
how complex your infrastructure is, how
much money you spend per ad that you do,
how fancy can your marketing materials
be. You spend money on all these things
that make you feel like you're more of a
real CEO, but you're not actually
advancing the success of your business.
Right? I know companies that have spent
$100,000 on a single video that have
worse MR than T3 Chat.
>> Wow.
>> They have I know a company with 40
employees that has worse revenue metrics
than us.
>> Okay. And how big is your team?
>> Two and a half.
>> Okay.
>> It's just I see this a lot and I'm
scared if I talk about the
characteristics of what one of these
good engineers look like that it's going
to be similar to when you'll talk about
how good their business is doing and
then people go copy all of the side
effects because that's what those things
are. Like if your business is growing
really fast, you have to hire a bunch of
people to keep up or you fail. If your
business is like converting really
really well, then you have to buy ads or
you're not making as much money as you
could be. These are all second order
effects of the horse being really fast.
>> If your horse isn't moving, doing all of
these things to it doesn't make the
horse move. It just doesn't work that
way. And I see this a lot in engineering
where engineers think if they copy like
the technologies that I use or the way
that I think they'll magically become a
faster horse,
>> right?
>> I actually just filmed a video at my
tech site. It's probably coming out in
the next few days, probably before this
even. I went out of my way at every beat
of that video to say, don't just blindly
copy what I'm doing because you think
I'm smart and know what I'm doing here.
I'm trying to describe how I came here
so you can find your own processes to
come to your own conclusions.
>> You need to do the thing to do that
though. You don't get there by copying
others. You get there by having a thing
you want.
>> Right?
>> The example I'll often give here is it's
not really an example, more just a
mindset thing is build something that
you wish existed.
>> For me, there's I find new things like
this all the time. I've built a bunch of
random pieces of software for managing
video assets and images for the stuff
that I do here. I built a bunch of tools
for managing my like inventory in
Pokemon when I was trying to do a living
deck. I built a bunch of custom like
stuff around SSH and GNU screen when I
was hosting my Minecraft servers back
when I was like 15 or 16. I got good by
solving problems. I got good at
contributing to a team by finally
getting a job with a team that also had
problems to solve. Okay.
>> And learning the hardest shift for me
was learning how to go from solving my
problems to solving someone else's.
>> But that was what I got from the gig. I
wouldn't have even got the gig if I
didn't have the ability to solve my own
problems.
>> Right. I I feel like the the advice of
like build something that you would use
or that you want that solves your own
problems. It's interesting because on
like the topic of like cargo culting and
and everyone's sort of doing things for
the sake of appearances instead of
understanding why they're being why it's
done. A lot of people that will go
through and build some of the things
that they want. Like for example, you
build like marker thing, right? Um for
your own uses. That's not something
commercial. That's not something you
sell. It's like open. Anyone can use it.
A lot of people are going to take your
advice, try building something they
want, and it's not going to be something
that's commercially viable, and they're
going to be like, "Well, that was [__]
advice."
>> Um, it sort of falls within the same
vein of like cargo culting.
>> Try to find the right way to put this
point.
>> If you rewind 10 minutes and listen to
all of the things I just said, and your
conclusion is, I need to build a thing
myself so I can make money off of that
thing, you need to rewire your brain
fundamentally because you're not aligned
with reality right now. Like I don't
know how else to put it. The the point
of building these things isn't so you
can go make a bunch of money on these
things. I built like I've probably built
like 30 products in my life before any
of them were successful. And even at
Ping, the company that owns Ping.gg, T3
Tools, all the T3 Tools stuff, including
marker thing, web hook thing, upload
thing, and now T3 Chat, almost all of
those had to basically fail before T3
Chat happened. And we didn't think T3
Chat would be successful. We thought it
might make a few grand a month if we're
lucky. We had no idea it would do as
well as it does. So when you do build
these things then like you and I think
that's something that strikes me a lot
about your content when you do things
you do it for the sake of like either
interest or the sake of learning. It
sounds like curiosity.
>> It's both. It's explicitly both. Every
time I try to make sure I can get both
of those values out of the things
because I have an endless list of ideas.
If I'm not going to learn anything
building it and I don't benefit
meaningfully from it, I'm just not going
to do it.
>> Right. Yeah.
>> Do you think it's like a a trait
specifically like or a bigger problem
specifically in software engineering
that a lot of the people that go into
it, a lot of the people are building,
it's purely for the money, it's purely
for the results as opposed to those two
things you just mentioned.
I'm trying to find the most polite way
to say those people are [__]
>> Okay, this might have to be it. I I
don't think there will be much room for
that going forward simply because the
amount of work an individual engineer
can do is going up exponentially every
day. And this isn't just like an AI
shell thing. I think this is also the
case with tools like Verscell, tools
like Convex, tools like Planet Scale.
Previously, these things would have been
a team of four to 10 people at every
single company in the world. Now they
are abstracted infrastructure services
that allow for a single person to ship
at the same scale as Amazon or Netflix.
That wasn't really viable before. Funny
enough, like AWS was the first instance
of this where all of a sudden we went
from needing a team of server managers
working in a warehouse to keep your
servers alive in the data centers to no
companies have those really other than
like the big cloud providers.
>> This abstraction layer continues to
happen in software. We went from
assembly to C to interpreted languages
to web. And then with the
infrastructure, we went from like
building our own CPUs to buying
computers and servers to renting servers
and managing them yourself to services
on AWS to Verscell. We have been
building abstractions on top to make
life easier forever. That's just the
nature of engineering. We make things
better for ourselves.
>> Obviously, the amount of work a given
engineer can do is increasing every
given month or year.
>> Sure. AI is accelerating that some
amount. You can argue that it's a point
that it's like a 1.1 multiplier. You
could argue that it's a 10 multiplier.
It doesn't really matter.
>> Companies don't need as many engineers
as they did 5 years ago. That's reality.
So the engineers are going to have are
going to be the best ones.
>> Okay?
>> The ones who care. And if one engineer
who, and this is a thing I actually say
a lot to founders and to people who are
trying to understand early stage. If I'm
trying to decide between two products
and one product is built by a team of 70
at a company of 2,00
and they're building this so that they
can get their promo next seme or that
next quarter,
>> right?
>> And then there is like two 20some year
olds that are obsessed with this problem
like autistic about this problem. They
can't stop thinking about it. They will
outship the 2,000 person multi-billion
dollar company every single time without
fail. outship ship in terms of like
actual amount of throughput that's being
put out or out
>> throughput quality understanding of
users care thoughtfulness
>> really
>> quality of product
>> where do you think that law that line
gets drawn like for example a company
like Google
>> when the cost of the service to run it
is exponentially greater than the cost
of engineering
>> okay
>> like you can't compete with YouTube
because it's so inex like like YouTube's
a loss leader minus ads I'm taking care
of my cat one sec speaking of loss
leaders
I'll stop costing you money.
>> Sorry.
>> Cool.
>> Anyways, uh think I was complaining
about costs
>> loss leaders. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Uh the amount of money Twitch
loses is genuinely horrifying. Like it's
so expensive to run live streams with a
lot of people watching. The cost of the
intro, the cost to even get your foot in
the door to start and then the cost to
run it is so high that edge cost and
edge time are almost a negligible
expense,
>> right?
>> When you're competing in those places,
you will lose. And that plus the other
thing that tends to make these bigger
businesses win is the bundle effect.
Like Microsoft with the office suite in
365 has a huge wedge that makes it so
that they can quickly out ship and not
even out ship but like outsell Slack and
Zoom and all these other things because
it's part of their bundle. Google with G
Suite has a similar thing where like
Google Drive, Google Docs, Gmail and all
of the powerful tools like Meet and
whatnot for businesses that they've been
slowly raising the price on. kept the
price at like four bucks a month per
seat for like 10 years and they've been
bumping it a dollar every six months for
a bit now. I think it's like nine or 10
bucks now. It's crazy. They more than
doubled the price and nobody even bats
an eye because we all rely on it so
much.
>> Like you can't compete with that because
there's so much value from the bundle
that it creates inherent lock in.
>> Okay,
>> so like those are the things you can't
compete with. You can't compete with
really compelling bundles and you can't
compete with infra that's constantly
losing money if you can't subsidize it
the way those businesses can. everything
else is up for grabs.
>> So then if everything else is up for
grabs, you believe those engineers for
example that are actually curious,
interested in learning and actual
builders that care about the problem,
you think it's like now that for example
AI, like you said, there's a multiplier
on what an individual engineer can do.
Do you think it's like the golden age
for building, the golden age for these
types of
>> without question. This is the best time
ever to like quit your job and go build
the thing if you want to build the
thing.
>> Okay. Would you also say it's the best
time ever for an individual contributor
that's actually passionate about what
they're doing to get a job if they
wanted to go down that route as well?
>> Absolutely. You could go to any of these
startups in the city, work there for one
to three years, learn a ton, make a
shitload of connections, save a good bit
of money, maybe even get some equity if
the company's successful, have a cash
out or at least something you could take
loans against there that's like
collateral that would do pretty well.
Then you're so set. A thing I actually a
thing I would trying to find the right
way to talk about more is I I talked
about this a bit in my startup video.
It's the idea of like building
privilege.
>> Okay.
>> Like I'm privileged in the sense that
like I had a pretty well-off family. We
had our issues back and forth, but for
the most part I could get support for
them when I needed it. Like they sold my
car for me so I'd have the money to move
here because I was too busy to sell my
own car.
>> Okay.
>> Those types of things added up in a way
that made the move here less risky. than
the fact that I actually had an offer
that was going to pay me way less risky.
Then I made a lot of money at that job.
I had saved a ton of money and had a
bunch of Amazon stock that had done
quite well. Now I have way less risk if
I'm going to quit and go coast, work at
a couple startups here and there, figure
out my thing. And when I decide to start
my own company, I have way less risk as
well because I know I can get a job at
any point if I need it. I have a bunch
of money saved, so I have a couple
months where I'm totally good. And I met
all of these awesome people throughout
my time in college and at Twitch that
are down to throw money at my business
now that I'm starting it because they
remember me as the engineer that was
good to work with. Now that I'm starting
my own thing, they trust me to be
successful with it.
>> I built a ton of privilege through all
of this. But it's the privilege of
because I'm a good engineer. I'm now
trusted by these successful people.
These people who have money and
resources,
>> right,
>> that have connections so I can get jobs,
so I can meet other investors, so I can
do all of these things. That's a
privilege I have, but it's a privilege I
worked for.
And you should be trying to build as
many of those as possible if you want to
do a thing that requires a lot of rolls.
>> Okay?
>> Nobody's successful their first time
with the startup thing. You got to roll
a couple products. You got to roll a
couple things. You got to eat a lot of
[__] It's like a thing I think a lot
about is skateboarding. It's where my
heart will always be. No one landed a
kickflip the first try. It's just like
laughable. Like if you've ever skated,
and even if you haven't, the amount of
dexterity and control of every movement
and familiarity you need to land a kick
flip, you can't do it the first time.
That's not how it works. And people
somehow think that startups are easier.
>> Okay?
>> And I don't get that. Like, you got to
be down to eat [__] And if eating [__]
means you're going to be broke and in
debt and can't survive, then you
shouldn't be doing this yet. If you have
a family you need to cover for or like
people that are dependent on you for
income and health insurance and [__]
>> you can't do the startup yet, okay? You
just cannot do it. And it sucks. And I
know I'm telling people like you cannot
pursue this thing that is your dream.
But your dream is not something that you
are given. Your dream is something that
has to be earned. And earning it isn't
committing to it too early. Earning it
is setting up the support systems and
like foundation you need to build and
not die when it falls over. Do you think
part of that foundation, for example,
was you working at Twitch, learning how
to be a good engineer? Do you think
that's the type of foundation people
also have to learn to acquire before
going to a startup?
>> Before going to or making a startup, cuz
they're very different
>> before making a startup.
To me, this feels like, do you have to
be able to stand up before you can
skate?
>> Okay.
>> And technically, no. Filipe Nunes
doesn't have legs and he's one of the
gnarliest skaters alive. But that that's
the exception to the rule. Obviously,
you need to be able to stand up if
you're going to skateboard. Like, duh.
If you're building a company and you're
the technical person at the company, you
need to know how to build and be
technical. I'm presuming we're already
there by the time you're going to go do
the startup. And if you're not yet, go
get an internship. Go get a job. Like, I
I kind of want to make my brand go get
the job at this point because so many
people are hesitant when it's the thing
they obviously need. I am so thankful I
did my five years in real industry stuff
after doing a bunch of internships and
co-ops and other things and building my
own stuff for years prior. Like I had 10
years of on the ground real engineering
experience before I even considered
doing a startup really before I even
started working at one. I could have
worked at one and gotten similar
experiences, but
>> I've never seen somebody who was screwed
because they started their startup too
late. Okay.
>> I can't tell you how many times I've
seen the opposite where you got screwed
because you started too early.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> So then in your opinion, I guess like
the optimal like build order, so to
speak, would be like get an get the job,
get the experience, find something
you're actually passionate about, build
it.
>> Yeah, I would say so. Yeah. And you can
build it on the side when you're at the
job, too. Like the the best time to do
the startup is when you can't not do it
anymore. Where you're not sleeping at
night anymore because you need to be
doing this thing,
>> right? I there's a lot of like
this is what's so hard when talking
about this is the advice I give to get
good at engineering and the advice I
give to be a founder or like a YouTuber
or whatever there's almost no overlap
between the two
>> really
>> because the advice to to be a good
engineer is go be an engineer
>> right
>> the advice to being a founder that's
successful or YouTuber that's successful
is don't [__] do it okay
>> like don't do this is not worth it like
running a company running a channel
doing all this [__] it's so much more
work than I've ever done and for the
majority of the time made less money
than I made as As an engineer until 6
months ago, you could argue that all of
this was a mistake.
>> Really for you? 6 months?
>> Absolutely. Like literally 6 months ago,
I was still losing money on the YouTube
channel, especially after all the Versel
drama and [__] Like this channel cost
me money for three years straight
>> really
>> because I didn't want to go the whole
sponsor route with the traditional [__]
But all the connections I made, the
opportunities I got, the ability to talk
to these people I've looked after my
whole life, like it was all worth it.
I'm not saying this to complain. I'm
saying this is a reality check. this
isn't success or like doing this isn't
what makes you successful
if you're doing this in pursuit of
something else like you you want to be a
founder so you can be successful you
want to be a founder so you can make a
bunch of money you want to be a founder
because you think it's cool you want to
be a YouTuber for any of those same
reasons don't do it not and even if it's
not for those reasons you probably
shouldn't do it the only people who
should be going down these paths the
founder path the YouTuber path those
types of things where there's a huge gap
between the successful people and
everyone else are the people who when I
say don't [__] do it, don't listen.
>> Okay,
I recommend you listen to me and that
you don't do it. But if me saying that
this was a mistake isn't enough to stop
you, then it's not enough to stop you.
You have a better chance of succeeding.
But if me telling you how shitty it is
makes you second guess it, you're not
cut out for this [__] Don't do it.
>> I feel like you saying that will make a
lot of people want to do it just for the
sake of like and
>> and as always 99% of them will fail, but
the 1% who are successful are going to
be really proud of themselves. So, do
you believe So, okay, let's talk content
creation then. A lot of people that want
to go into content creation, you believe
like 99% of them are probably never
going to make it. And what would you
define as making it for those people?
>> Making enough money to pay your rent.
>> Okay.
>> Like even that is that we were talking
about this a bit earlier actually.
If you look at a field like engineering
and you think about the like income
breakdowns across engineers, you can
imagine it's a pretty standard normal
curve where the majority of the amount
of like like if you look at engineering
salaries, the vast majority probably
fall between like 40k and 500k a year.
Like 95 plus percent of people who write
software for a living are making 40k a
year to 500k a year. There are people on
the other ends there to an extent like
people who only work a little bit
part-time or in nations that don't pay
as well that are making less money than
that. And there's a handful of people
that make ungodly amounts of money like
all these crazy meta AI offers where
they're making like 15 to 100 mil a year
supposedly. I think it's all [__]
Regardless, there are people who make
over a mill year in software dev and
there's people who make under 10k in
software dev. The vast majority are in a
reasonable range between those two.
What about NBA? What about basketball?
How many professional basketball players
make under a mill a year?
>> Pretty much none of them.
>> Zero. The answer's actually zero because
it's a minimum three million year
contract. Where do you think YouTubers
fall between the two?
>> Yeah, definitely on the NBA side.
>> Yes. you the like like if you were to
look at the raw number of people who
make between minimum wage and 500k a
year on YouTube and the raw number of
people or channels I will say that make
over a million they're probably similar
numbers of people which means 95% of the
money is going to that top y
>> because this section is so small and so
little income that it's a blip on the
radar
>> that's not how like like and I know a
lot of these people the people who are
in that range actually often end up
working way harder to make ends
Because one video bombs, they're out.
One sponsor cuts, they can't make rent.
When you're fighting in that range, it
is so much scarier than just having a
[__] job. Get the job. If you can't
keep yourself from doing this, then do
it. But do it with a safety net of a
thing that pays your bills because that
not only is this range hard to get into,
it is a death sentence because anytime
you [__] up, it's over. And you're not
focused on what actually matters, which
is getting to the other side where
you're making way more. And that's not
even a thing that you you get because
you want it. That's a thing you get
because you get good at everything else,
>> right?
>> And even then it's like literally 0.001%
do it. The vast majority of YouTube
channels will never even be monetized
>> really. So, so then on the topic of like
get a job like you see right now in like
startup culture and even content
creation culture, it's like such a
popular thing to drop out of university
or even high school now. We're seeing a
lot of like people just drop out of high
school to go into YC or into like any
other type of incubator or to just start
content because their shorts go viral.
>> Do you think that's long term? Do you
think that's like smart?
>> I'm going to say things I'm going to get
in trouble for. That's fine. I've been
saying these a bit more recently. I need
to just commit to it.
The really hot one that I just have to
jump on first is that any accelerator
that isn't YC is a [__] joke. There
is not a single accelerator other than
YC that's ever had a billion dollar
company. Not a single one. Every other
one of them is a [__] meme.
>> Really?
>> Yep.
>> Neo,
>> like pair.
>> Don't drop names. I'm gonna get more
trouble.
>> Okay.
>> I I I will say that I know more about
these accelerators than anybody in the
comments who is disagreeing with me
here. I don't know how to say like,
trust me, I've put millions of dollars
into this [__] You should listen to me
properly. Like, I've been scouting with
A16 forever. I've been doing a lot of
these things for many years now. I've
watched the industry.
The only example people will point to is
that Curser was a NEO company, but they
weren't a NEO company. They got a NEO
check, but didn't go through the
accelerator. So, it's [__] [__]
There is not a single billion dollar
company out of any of these other
accelerators, and there are literally
hundreds of them out of YC. So, if
you're dropping out to go join a group
of rejects that doesn't make money, know
that that's what you're doing. If you're
dropping out for YC, I would still
encourage you go to school. Paul Graham
would still encourage you go to school.
>> Yeah,
>> I get why you want to roll the dice on
that. It's less of a risk. It's still a
risk because like the difference is 5%
of YC companies make it to a billion
dollar valuation. 0% of every other
accelerators do,
>> right?
>> So, you're rolling the dice on your
entire life and career for a 5% chance
that it'll be very successful after you
work your [__] ass off with a 95%
chance you work similarly hard and get
nothing for it.
>> It's not a great gamble,
>> right?
>> And if these numbers are hesit making
you hesitate,
don't do it because this is not a thing
that you should do if you're scared.
there's a thing you should do because
you're like postfear and the thing that
you want is so desperately wanted that
you can't really sleep.
>> Right. I I feel like the interesting
thing I think about a lot of your takes
and especially about you as a person.
When I first started watching on
YouTube, I like wasn't the biggest fan.
But then the more I watched you, the
more I realized like the things you say,
the truths that you sort of like come to
the conclusion of are from data. Data
from the connections you have, data from
the things you're doing, data from like
what you're actually seeing in the real
world. And it's rare to meet someone
like you that will actually isn't is not
afraid to like say these things that are
like
>> hard truths for other people to swallow
um but based on real things. And I'm
wondering like where that came from
where that like I think in your opinion
you would say you're sort of like
dedicated to truth and like on
>> I think I'm just autistic.
>> Okay. Like if I'm being real, I I don't
know how to be any other way. And and
I I I have like two different buckets of
my takes, which is like generally
speaking, the industry trends in this
direction versus this has literally
never succeeded and you're delusional
for thinking you're special,
>> right?
>> So for example, with the first one, it's
I get why you're going to YC. You're
statistically speaking, you aren't going
to be successful with it, but there's a
5% chance you will. It's a reasonable
thing to fight for if you really think
you can do it. I get why you're doing
that. I won't talk too much [__]
>> Going to another accelerator. Why do you
think you're going to be the first ever
person to be successful out of that
accelerator,
>> right?
>> I don't think it's statistically
speaking, it won't happen because it's
never happened. And another example of
this is like when I talk about the
technology Flutter, my my counterpoint
whenever somebody gives me [__] about
hating Flutter is show me one good
Flutter app and I'll shut up.
>> Okay, that's all it will take. I will
immediately walk back all of my takes on
Flutter. I will unlist all of my videos
about it. I will make an apology video
probably even if you show me one app I
can use on my iPhone today that doesn't
make me want to blow up my brains. Okay,
that's all it will take and no one has
done it because Flutter is a
fundamentally flawed technology.
>> Wow. And and and then Okay, back on the
topic of I see like okay this 5% like
billionaire rate do you so obviously
that's like propagating
>> to be clear it's 5% unicorn rate you're
not going to get anywhere near a billion
dollars out of that billion dollar.
you're lucky to get 300 mil at that
point and even then after taxes and
everything like like a billion dollar
valuation means you might come out like
150 mil if you do well.
>> Okay. What do you think makes like I
know the early days with Dalton,
Michael, Paul and stuff like that or I
guess it was just Paul in the beginning,
right? Uh like what do you think gives
YC that edge?
>> Paul and his wife,
>> right?
>> She deserves a ton of credit. Jessica's
an incredible
>> social radar. She's awesome. I've
watched a ton of her podcast.
>> She's the best.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, what makes them different is
for the most part they are all just so
no [__]
>> Okay.
>> The the thing that Paul did different
that I love and it's just I didn't get
it until I went through YC and started
reading his stuff more.
>> He is the king of saying really complex
ideas in the simplest possible words. If
you take any one of his blog posts and
throw it through like the reading
comprehension level analysis tools like
oh this is a fourth grade reading level.
He doesn't use big words and fancy
[__] He just says the thing he's
trying to in almost like inappropriately
simple terminology. It's genuinely an
achievement the way he excuse me the way
that he writes. I envy it and I try to
achieve that in my own way too.
>> And yeah.
>> No, no, I was going to say it's it's
interesting. I even like the radical
like truthtelling stuff like like we met
like a couple hours ago and the
literally the first interactions I had
with you was like telling you what I'm
trying to do in my startup and your
advice is just like yeah it's TLDDR.
It's like [__] [__] right? I mean,
it it could work as a small like
lifestyle business to like a 10 mil
value thing. And I think there's going
to be a lot more of those. Like
>> I guess this is worth talking about a
little bit. There's a a problem I see a
lot where people think a startup is a
thing that can make a million dollars a
year. That's a if you can make a million
dollars a year doing a thing, you should
do it and be really proud of it. That's
not a startup. A startup's a thing that
can go from zero to 50k a year to a mill
a year to 100 mil a year where it just
ramps up like [__] mad because
nobody's investing in one of these
startups because they want to 2x their
money. They're investing because they
want to 200x their money 10% of the
time. That's how this all works.
>> And you don't get that from these
companies that are like extra layers of
niching. the more filters you put onto
your idea. The example I gave is Tinder
for dogs with three legs in Alaska.
Every additional word that came out of
my mouth made that product less
successful, made it less reach. That
doesn't mean you shouldn't build it. If
you really want Tinder for dogs with
three legs in Alaska and you're
convinced that it will be helpful for
you and the people you care about, do it
knowing that it isn't worth investing
in. I'm not going to invest in an idea
that can't be worth a billion dollars
someday. I'll invest in a team that is
capable of thinking of ideas in that
way, but I won't invest in a company
that I don't see having that capability
and no one else will either. The startup
or a startup as in the thing that like
goes through an accelerator, can raise
money, can scale, can hire, can do all
the things you guys think of with
startups
is not the types of things that Level's
io is going to compete with. Like like
the indie hacker thing where you make a
living off of a couple products that do
decently well. Like if levels was a
founder, he would be a [__] founder.
Okay?
>> He is not doing revenue numbers that
would make him a worthwhile investment
and he doesn't know how to scale a
business for [__] He is a terrible
founder. So if you want to be a founder
that goes through YC and you're looking
to levels for advice, you're going the
wrong way.
>> Do you think more founders should be
more founders, engineers should be okay
with doing the Marklue, doing the levels
approach to actually building instead of
trying to go for this all or nothing
approach?
I think you should always default to
that. Like I I think there's a limited
amount of shelf space for people who are
doing that for sure,
>> but at the same time I keep finding
random bespoke products that do really
solid revenue. Like there was an awful
teleprompter app I was trying to use for
a while before I moved to custom
software on my Elgato. Turns out the guy
who made that makes like 1.2 mill a year
off the subscriptions alone. And it's
like one shitty teleprompter app that
you put on your iPad and attach to a
teleprompter for your camera. Like
there's a ton of these types of one-off
things. There's a flight app that I
love, Flighty. That guy, I think, is
doing like 5 to six mill a year. It's a
solo dev building an app that is
primarily like infrastructure for
tracking all of the flight data from
every airline ever to give you slightly
better recommendations and like timings
for flights. I gladly pay for 100 bucks
a year for that subscription because it
makes my life easier when I'm flying all
the time. And that guy's printing as an
independent developer doing that
himself.
>> Okay. What what do you think separates
like flighty for example from like as an
idea like everyone takes flights like
the the market theoretically should be
like quite large to that. What do you
think separates that idea from like a
max like 10 mill R to like a 100 like
200 mill idea?
>> Who is it providing value to? Because
the the expensive flight app most people
fly once a year.
>> Okay,
>> that's the average. Most people's
flights probably cost 400 bucks. You're
now spending 25% of more year a year on
flights for an app that you'll forget
you have on your phone.
>> Okay?
>> It makes no sense for the vast majority
of people,
>> right?
>> It's the again like always think in
funnels and filters. Everyone flies.
Most people have problems with flights.
Some people want more data. Some people
fly enough to care. Some people look
into like good apps for these types of
things. Some of them will find this. A
very small number will sign up and a
very small number will keep their subs.
every single one of those layers cuts
90% of the funnel out. So if you have
all of people and you cut 90% to 10
times, you're down to a couple thousand
people.
>> So when you built T3 Chat then, did you
have that funnel in mind? Is this
something that's meant to be
venturebacked and grow to like a billion
dollar company or is it more like a
>> T3 Chat was a a weird Hail Mary play
when I was trying to get my company to
default alive because I [__] this up
with my company. None of the products we
were building had that potential to
scale. I had paths on how we could
remove layers upfunnel. Okay,
>> like with ping for example, we start
with live video for Twitch. We move it
from Twitch to other platforms so that
it can use it with everything. We then
remove the live streaming aspect so that
you can record straight on Twitch. It's
like a podcasty type solution. We then
abstract the like output format so you
can do it on your phone and other things
like that. And then we abstract like
where the dump goes. Instead of it being
a file you go download, maybe we can
integrate it into your video editor
directly. Like each of these removals
increases the size of the potential
market exponentially. With T3 chat, an
example of this is we chose a really low
price which massively opens up our
market.
>> We also are going to put out a mobile
app soon, which will massively open up
our market again, potentially two to
threex it. These things are how we go
back up the funnel since we niched a
little bit, but our pitch was never
niched with T3 chat. The pitch is the
best AI chat app ever made. And we've
maintained that bar. Everyone benefits
from that because there's over a billion
people using chat GPT. We're a better
app. We see no reason why we couldn't
someday have a similar number of users.
But that was not why we built it. We
built it because my company was burning
money every month. Pick thing we had
just put out which is for managing
assets as a creator was doing decently.
It was like 1.5k MR and the cost
relatively low. I did a bunch of math. I
looked at where our revenue was. I was
like, "Okay, if we do this five more
times and maybe one or two of them does
slightly better revenue, we'll no longer
be burning money in this company. We'll
survive next year,
>> right?
>> That would be really nice. We should
find a couple more things we can do
that'll make 1 to 5k a year or a month
revenue and then we'll be revenue
positive and we can survive as we figure
out what's next."
>> Okay.
>> The next one was T3 Chat.
>> Okay. We did not expect it to to blow up
the way it did. But that that was like
an unintentional side effect of the
combination of like the market, the
quality of the product, and how deep the
need was for a thing for
>> like the top of funnel for us for like
users coming in is they want to try all
of the models and compare them,
>> right?
>> Then their sub lapses or they did the $1
deal and they go to cancel. They go back
to chat GPT or Quad. It's
>> horrible.
>> Our subscription revival rates insane
where you will cancel and then come back
because they forgot how much better our
site was than the others. They get used
to using it. They get comfortable with
it working well. It's like moving to an
iPhone for 3 years and going back to
Android and remembering how jank and
miserable it is. Like that's actually
how it feels. Like I feel like we built
the iPhone and everybody else is rocking
an Android ass platform. So the the
actual moat that you guys have built
here. So obviously it's one of the only
AI ideas where like another an AI lab
isn't going to come and like replace
because obviously they'll never be able
to integrate other models in. But for
example, like other people that try to
release similar apps to yours, like like
where do other than like your
distribution, what do you think like is
the big moat around your idea?
>> The distribution is far from a mo.
Everyone overrates the distribution
massively. Like
>> I'm probably near market saturation for
my audience, like people in my audience
that would be interested in T3 Chat. I
might get like 50% more of them with the
mobile app, but I have basically
accepted that I've neared tap out or
I've nearly tapped out of what I can get
out of my audience for T3 chat in terms
of new user growth.
>> Really?
>> Yeah. That the being a creator hampers
your business significantly.
>> Absolutely. It does. It distracts me all
of the [__] time. Okay.
>> It means that I'm now a huge risk for
the company. Both because I'm a flight
risk. If I leave, the perceptions the
business is dead. And if I stay and then
anything controversial happens, the
perceptions the business is evil.
There's so much risk with me doing this
and it's keeping me from being in the
trenches building the thing all for
what? So that if I include teeth reach
out in one of 10 videos I might get a
thousand subscribers at best.
>> Okay. I think that's a really
interesting point because I think the
like general consensus right now and
mind you this like take it with a grain
of salt because I feel like a not not
very many people have done it to your
degree where you have the following that
you have and you've converted uh the
following that you have into a startup
but a lot of the general uh what people
are saying right now is like being a
creator is the best way to be a founder.
Like you look at things like Cluey and
like Roy Lee and you know to quote him
like no controversy from a CEO has ever
killed a business for example. Um
>> oh how wrong that statement is. I'm
going to do a fun thing. I'm not going
to say names because I can't. But I'm
going to go through my investor
database, the place I keep track of all
the companies I've invested in. Okay?
I'm gonna look through them and not say
names, but look for the successful ones,
the ones that like are likely going to
exit and tell you whether or not the
founder has any meaningful social media
presence beyond a thousand followers on
Twitter.
>> Right.
>> Okay. The first one that's a high
valuation. They have no presence at all.
>> Um,
okay. This next one is very, very
successful. I've never invested twice in
a company before, but either Seed and
Series A, they're [__] killing it. No
social presence whatsoever. Their most
prominent socials person at the company
is the I think it's the CEO and she has
under 800 followers. She's nobody.
>> When you say no socials, do you mean
specifically for the founders or the
company itself as well?
>> All and I mean that there is nothing
associated with this brand that has any
relevance to social media, but they're
doing millions of dollars a year in
revenue.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So, the two so far that are doing
millions a year in revenue have no
presence whatsoever. One of them has the
gold check on their company account and
account. I think has like 5k followers.
They never post on it.
>> Okay. Uh,
and by the way, I just scrolled by seven
that are trying to do the social thing.
Like back to back to back. Almost all of
them are trying the social thing and
none of them are making money. Um,
one I'm on the line for cuz I I think
the founder will be successful, but
they're not making any money right now.
>> Okay.
>> Uh, four more that are just social
presence that don't have any marketing.
Actually, here's a fun one that we can
all talk about because this is mostly
public and people know I've invested in
the ones I've invested in. I'm invested
in most of the vibe coding builder apps
because I just happen to have been
friends with a lot of the people making
them. Some have social presence, some
don't.
>> Let's look at stack blitz versus lovable
versus um or sorry, stack blitls, which
is bolt versus lovable
>> versus vzero.
Which of those is making the most money?
>> Lovable, I guess,
>> by quite a bit, right?
>> They make a lot of money. I've been
getting those updates for a while. I
know they get [__] for people thinking
it's not genuine. It's I have no reason
to believe it's not genuine. It seems
very real.
>> Okay.
>> Which one has the most social presence?
>> I guess VO
>> by a lot. Vzero has the most by a large
margin,
>> right?
>> They just put out a huge announcement
yesterday and it got like 200 likes on
Twitter. Not even
>> really.
>> Like after the whole day.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. No one cares. And like the
founders are huge on social media. No
one gives a [__]
Bolt by Stack Blitz doesn't have a big
presence and following, but the creator
and founder Eric has such deep ties in
the software dev world. He was one of
the first people to reach out to me,
which was like an emotional moment for
me because he was like a hero of mine
for a long time because he was the one
who made web containers a thing.
>> Okay.
>> He took this vague standard Google had
reverse engineered it, contributed a bit
to it and made the first ever like
platform to run node in the browser.
>> Okay.
>> So you could take a NodeJS app or
Node.js
like build pipeline for your like create
react app and do the whole build process
in the browser without any
infrastructure needed to sandbox it.
Everyone else was building cloud VMs for
your IDE in the browser,
>> right?
>> He moved it all to the browser. Okay.
>> And it was so cool. And I remember
trying to reverse engineer his code. He
obiscated the [__] out of it cuz he knew
what he had.
>> That was like 2017,
>> right?
>> I loved that dude. So when I was at the
it was the bun 1.0 event and Eric comes
over to chat with me like wait what the
[__] that was like one of those big oh
[__] how does this person know who I am
moments for me
>> he has that type of relationship with so
many people in the scene he is so in the
trenches he is deeply connected with so
many people in the like full stack
engineering world
when he came to me with Bolt I was I
think I was the first external user of
it if I recall
>> okay
>> because we were doing a sponsor thing at
the time like and it was a bit of a hail
Mary because they were about to run out
of money and like fail fail. He was
going to spend some of his last money
sponsoring me. I didn't know that he was
that close to the end.
I was taking this venture for Saglet. I
love the Saglet ID and all that. But
Bolt was something he was really excited
about. It was the first vibe coding
platform where you could tell it what
tech to use and it would use that tech.
>> Okay. As opposed to like VO sticking it.
Yeah.
>> It's everything else is like a React
NextJS app. He built something
different.
>> Yep.
>> That could use whatever tech because
that's what he cared about is he loves
the whole ecosystem. He loves all these
founders and maintainers and developers
in the full web stack space.
He is number two because he loves all of
it so much. That's how he got there.
>> He's not particularly big on social
media. He has a lot more attention now
because he's a successful founder
finally.
>> But he got there
>> for the [__] love of the game.
>> That was the result of 10 years of
failing and dedicating everything to
supporting the ecosystem around him and
how much he loves it. Like I I have a
VJS shirt downstairs that I got for
speaking at the Vit conference from
Stack Blitz. Okay.
>> And they put a tiny little Stack Blitz
on the sleeve. The whole shirt's Vit.
Like they are they are here to support
the ecosystem because they just
genuinely love the web so much.
>> That's how they got to number two.
>> Lovable got to number one with branding
and being early, but not social [__]
media presence. That did not help them
at all. They don't have that.
>> The social media presence is for third
place. The love of the game is for
second place. And then pure luck is
first place.
>> Pure luck.
>> Yes. lovable,
>> luck, placement, timing, execution, all
formats of luck.
>> Okay,
>> I love lovable. I love bolt. I'm
invested in both. Not invested in
anything for a cell. If a cell makes
money, I lose it usually.
>> Okay,
>> so account for my biases accordingly.
That is a much more accurate
representation of how startups tend to
go than the guy with the most followers
wins.
>> Wow. almost all like I can keep
scrolling until I find a valuable
company that has social media presence.
>> I feel like this is one of the most
probably like
one of the points that I think a lot of
people would disagree because right now
everyone is trying to make the switch to
social media founders people that are
just raising their seeds from YC. are
coming like to example creators like me
and I don't know if you get it as well
but the majority of my DMs are like
sponsors and all of the sponsors are
like
>> I we just like raised the seed from YC
we don't have any customers yet but we
want to like pay you x amount of money
to promote this video and promote our AI
vibe coding tool number 87. Is that like
a you're saying that's like an enormous
mistake?
>> That is significantly better than trying
to do it themselves.
>> Okay.
>> If they came to you like we'll pay you
to help our YouTube channel be better. I
would slap them.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. It's it founder and companyled
social media. It's garbage. It doesn't
do [__] It it it actively distracts
from the mission,
>> right?
>> The the challenge I'll give most
founders is to scroll through your watch
history on YouTube until you find a
company video, a video from a company
promoting their own product, right?
>> You'll be scrolling for a [__] while
because no one watches that [__] For a
very long time, the most popular video
on Versel's YouTube channel was me just
ranting about it was a a talk I gave
that was just me doing like my normal
YouTube video ranting about how you can
abuse Nex.js. JS.
>> Okay.
>> And that was the most popular video on
their channel for years.
>> That people don't watch companies, they
watch people. And you as a person trying
to run a company are going to struggle a
lot competing with the people doing this
full-time that are obsessed with it that
that can't sleep if they don't. Like I
when I'm not filming, I watch six to
eight hours of YouTube a day because I'm
just a degenerate. I love it. It's just
who I am as a person. I watch disgusting
amounts of YouTube. The creating content
thing is almost a justification of my
bad habits. It's like I can apply this
thing I already do in a way that is
beneficial to me. And the other thing is
I love trying new technology and most of
what I try would never make sense for me
to use for my business. So how can I
justify it? The content turned out to be
a good way to justify my habit of
changing out the stack and the tools I
use every day. It is a fun way to to
make something out of that bad habit.
>> Okay. So you're still doing YouTube
practically for the love of the game
then.
>> Yeah. The fact that I make enough money
to then go invest in companies a really
cool bonus. But I if I didn't love doing
this still, I wouldn't be doing it
anymore.
>> And you think, for example, T3 Chat
would be a lot more successful if you
weren't doing YouTube
>> at this point. Absolutely. If I was to
quit YouTube and go all in on T3 Chat
right now and not be distracted and not
lose motivation because I had done that,
absolutely be more successful. But the
biggest issue there is my ADHD will win.
>> Okay.
>> I need multiple different things I'm
like fully invested in at any given
time. I am behind on both my channel and
on T3 chat. Like I need to film more
ads. I need to respond to a bunch of
emails. I need to deal with [__] for the
content. Or I have like I have a person
in the community that's offering to like
publish actual research about
SnitchBench that I like owe back more
DMs to. He's like halfway done with the
work and I'm blocking it constantly.
Like those types of things that'll be
incredible content, incredible like
boost for my channel.
>> I'm behind on all of them.
>> Okay,
>> we have 52 PRs I need to review on T3
chat right now
>> and a bunch of features and plan feature
work that I'm blocking right now. And by
the time I have either of those fixed,
I'll be fresh out of surgery from my
hand, right? And by the time I'm
starting to function again from that,
like a week later, YC demo day.
>> Okay.
>> And I spend a lot of time in the YC
offices for about a week closing out all
my deals and getting that all
orchestrated now four times a year
because I do four batches a year.
>> That's crazy.
>> So between my investing advisory stuff,
running the channel, and running my
business, I'm behind on everything at
all times. That's the nature of the life
that I've chosen to live. And the
interesting so okay a lot of people I
feel like a lot of people are going to
hear that and they're going to sort of
look at it as like oh that's like a
really ungrateful way to look at it for
example like when Mark Lou came out and
he's like yeah anyone could do what I'm
doing whereas what he was selling was
ship fast and he was only able to sell
it as people think because of that
following do you think for example your
following was what gave you the start
with tat T3 chat
>> not only is my answer to that no I think
that that effect actually hurt us and
caused us to delay building the right
thing for a
Because because I have a following, we
are guaranteed a minimum number of users
for everything we build.
>> Which sucks because we can't identify
product market fit until much later. And
we think we have it because we have real
users and then they slowly churn. They
have really low renewal rates. They
might come use us later again and then
stop again. Like looking at the upload
thing, user retention charts made me
mentally ill. Like it it seems like the
business will probably do well until you
realize the alignment it has with my
YouTube schedule. That is what made the
business have any legs at all.
>> I see
>> T3 Chat has legs because we're the best
solution. We're the first to have the
new models and we got a we got through
the hard first part of getting our first
thousand users a lot faster. But I can
get through that with any product.
That's the cool thing about being having
an audience is you can skip the first
step of getting those first users.
Everything from that point forward is
just as hard. But the unintentional, not
talked about side effect here is because
you always get those first thousand
users, you'll stay on the wrong idea for
way too long.
>> Wow.
>> And we did that like three separate
times.
>> So, I definitely think I've I've tested
T3. I've used all the chat chat apps. I
do I definitely think that like T3 chat
is by far the best user experience. I
think what you guys have built is by far
the best product. Like I don't think
there's any debating that. I feel like a
lot of people are going to watch this,
look at you, and feel like this is a
poor like feel like your stance might be
like a oh, poor me situation. like this
following like I spent
>> to be very clear I couldn't be happier
with where I am. I [__] love this.
The way I'm phrasing this isn't meant to
be
woe is me. I'm ungrateful. I feel like
[__] about this. It's to warn you that
this isn't worth it most of the time.
Because if it didn't come out that I'm
really successful at the end here,
>> then I just wasted the last 10 years of
my life. And for the vast majority of
people, that's how it goes. And that's
how it was going for me until the end of
last year and the beginning of this
year. Like even though I was successful
by every metric. I had all this
audience. I had all these things. My
company was losing 20 to 40 grand a
month. My YouTube channel I was like
going out of my pocket to fund my editor
and pay my manager to move out here.
Every time I took a sponsor, I would get
infinite [__] [__] for it because I
would only take sponsors that I was
shipping the products of, okay?
>> Which made it seem like I was really
biased because I would say like, "Oh, we
use this for everything." Because I
would use it for everything. Then I
would go to the company and say, "Hey,
can you just pay me?" So, I talk about
this more instead. And then I moved to
what I consider a slightly more
dishonest model of you buy an ad slot in
my video where I can't really say
anything bad about your product for 2
minutes. I don't like that cuz the
previous model I had blanket permission
to say whatever the [__] I wanted. It
was great. And I I felt like I could be
more honest then. I'm still very honest
and I I turn down 50 sponsor deals for
every one I take. I only pick products
that I think are aligned with my
audience, will benefit my audience, and
are something I could see myself
pitching at lunch or dinner to a
co-orker.
But that was the difference for when I
start stopped losing money and started
making money on the channel is when I
compromised on a thing I cared about.
>> Okay.
>> Being all of these things, founder,
investor, YouTuber, especially
is to an extent like how much of
yourself are you willing to give up to
make this work? And for me the answer
was done. So it didn't work for a while.
And as I was willing to start
compromising on a couple of the things
>> then it started to work. But if you
compromise on too much you just lose
everything immediately. It's like a
really really tough stress test on like
your own self.
>> Okay.
>> And I am very lucky to have come out on
the other side and be successful. And
the the cool part is I get to do this
these things that I love every day. When
I get fed up on one the other two are so
far behind I get to go catch up. I get
to work on things I care about and I
love every single day. There's nothing
better in the world than that.
>> But I was also really happy when I had a
real job with the team that I love
working with, too. So,
>> yeah.
>> On the topic of like the [__] that you
get for your videos,
>> on the topic of the [__] you get for
your videos, like I I do think I feel
like objectively you get more [__] for
things that you do that if other
creators were to do, nobody would mat an
eye. I won't say names, but I'm seeing
this right now where things I was
accused of with sponsors and investors
where I was being kinder to companies
because I was an investor or I was paid
to say things that I don't necessarily
believe like none of that's ever
happened with me. I literally am
watching it happen to other creators in
our space and they get no [__] for it
whatsoever. And it's
>> it doesn't bother me. It like
it way to put it. It it's been a weird
reflection for me where I realize just
how ingenuine the critique is. Like it
was never about the things I was saying
or the biases they perceived. It was a
frustration that I was supporting a
thing they didn't like.
>> The big one will always be Versel. I
still use Verscell for everything I
build.
>> I still genuinely think they are the
best infrastructure company in the game.
I think they solve problems nobody else
solves better than everybody else tries
to. I've worked with other people that
compete with them. I've taken sponsors
from companies that compete with them.
I've shipped products on companies that
compete with them. I always end up going
back. And even especially now with like
if you have a workload that could run on
Verscell but you're like I'll run it on
Lambda myself. You're probably going to
spend more money than if you use it on
Versel because Lambda doesn't have fluid
compute. It doesn't have the concept of
one node running multiple concurrent
requests at the same time. You can
reduce the amount of compute time that
you're paying for by 95 to 99% on
Versell compared to going to AWS
directly. Is it a AWS wrapper? Sure. But
as a as rapper let you use 95% less AWS
and 99% less time in the dashboard.
That's such a worthwhile thing that will
save you a majority of your bill. Now
when it was more expensive I could hear
the argument. Now that it's cheaper
you're [__] stupid.
>> And it's just annoying that I'm still to
this day called a bias versus cell
shell. When that company has cost me
more money than the people [__] on
me make combined. Okay.
>> I don't care about these people anymore.
it because they actually this is
probably one of the best piece of advice
I'll give especially if you start to
build an audience. There's a weird thing
that happens where a lot more people
have opinions on what you do and what
you say. You have to build a system and
a framework in your mind for handling
it. Mine is two pieces. Piece one is
that I focus primarily on the people who
I care about, who I look up to, who I
respect, and how they're feeling about
me. When I have a risky tweet, I will
always show it to Mark and Ben, my CTO
and my channel manager. And if either
says no or I'm not sure about it,
immediately gets deleted, does not get
posted.
>> Okay.
>> If I do go too far on something and one
of these like people in my life that I
trust, be it like old mentors and
friends, people I used to work with, my
current team, anyone who I care about
hits me and says, "I think you went too
far on that." Even if I disagree,
immediately delete, have a conversation
with them, try to figure out what went
wrong and like how I can make sure this
doesn't happen in the future.
>> That is really important to me. I get my
signals from people I trust and not Yes,
men. I if somebody is too agreeable with
me, I'll usually kick them out of the
circle because I don't want that. I want
people who are willing to challenge me.
I've actually had a problem where I
brought haters in too close, okay?
Because I I wanted the push back so
badly.
>> But that's where the other side comes
in. This is important. This is the the
filter system, the red flags.
>> You have to build a system where you
have certain like knowable truths that
if somebody denies, you know they're
operating in bad faith. Okay.
>> My favorite example of this, and it's
really dumb. Pick up my phone for this
one.
My iPhone. Have you heard of battery
gate before?
>> Uh, no.
>> Battery gate was a really interesting
controversy. With the iPhone 6, Apple
changed the shape and style of the phone
fundamentally. That was the first Tim
Cook phone, which meant that they were
no longer going to do all of the Steve
Jobsism was like the big one was you
could touch every corner of the phone
with your thumb.
>> The market didn't want that. Tim Cook is
a data wizard. He knew that. So the
first phone he got to control was the
two bigger phones. The 6 which was 50%
bigger than the iPhone 5 and then the 6
Plus which was a fabt. It was a mini
tablet is so big and now it looks small
compared to modern phones. The iPhone 6
and 6 Plus since they were so much
bigger they need a bigger battery. They
went with a different company to make
those batteries. And those batteries had
different characteristics than they had
worked with before and those
characteristics were largely lied about
when they were given to Apple.
>> Okay. The big issue there is that under
really cold and really hot temperatures,
the battery quality degrades over time.
People also have some fundamental
misunderstandings about how battery
quality degrades. It's not that you can
stuff less juice into the battery. Is
that the efficiency of the ions in the
capacitor or is the efficiency of the
ions of the battery degrade over time.
The amount of the amount of electrons
that can be held by them get worse over
time. And more importantly, the amount
of electrons it can release gets less
reliable over time. Okay,
>> so the amount of like like at peak
voltage, the amount of speed juice you
can get out of the battery goes down.
But more importantly, the speed at which
it can move up to that much juice goes
down. So like if you need 2 watts and
then you need 15 watts, a degraded
battery goes from 2 watts to 15 watts
slower.
>> Okay,
>> so Apple had a problem where 2 to 3
years in and Apple's phones last 5 to 8
years usually. Okay,
>> so 2 to 3 years in if you lived in a
really cold or really hot climate, your
battery would no longer go from 2 watts
to 15 watts really effectively. It would
take more time to do it. What happens if
your phone processor needs 15 watts, but
it's only being given two? The phone
crashes and shuts down,
>> right?
>> Do you know when your phone uses full
power?
>> When
>> there's one time of day, well, one time
of use where most phones will ramp up
the processor and it's only one for most
people. Okay. When you open an app,
>> when you're opening an app, the
processor will ramp up in order to get
the data out of storage and put it in
RAM.
>> Okay,
>> this means your phone goes from like 1
watt to 10 watts probably for like a
second and then back down. And this is
if you had the degraded batteries, it
will crash your phone.
>> Y
>> Apple had a really good novel solution
here.
>> What if on this one particular case
where this happens, we slow down how
fast the processor speeds up. So the
processor goes from like 500 MHz to 2
GHz. But instead of it doing it
instantaneously, what if it does it over
a fourth of a second? What if it does
over half a second? What if it ramps up
slower so that the battery doesn't have
to give all the juice immediately? It
can ramp up faster. It will preserve the
battery better over time and it will
keep the phone from shutting down when
this happens,
>> right?
>> So for affected phones with affected
batteries that had been detected to be
at a certain level of health or lower,
they automatically would slow down not
the speed of your browser. You could
still go 2 GHz, but how fast you would
get there.
>> Okay,
>> this is the biggest controversy Apple's
ever been in.
>> Okay,
>> they call it battery gate. It's Apple
doing planned obsolescence,
intentionally slowing down your phone so
you have to buy a new one.
>> Okay,
>> this is how it has been marketed by
dishonest people for almost 10 years
now. The reason I went down this whole
rant is so I could hopefully make it
clear that at any point does it seem
like Apple being dishonest or trying to
[__] over their users.
>> It's actually kind of obvious it's the
opposite. It's them trying to make it so
your iPhone 6 from 3 years ago can keep
working. So when you give it to your kid
and they start buying apps, it will work
for them because if that kid goes and
buys their first app and opens it and
the phone crashes,
>> they're much more likely to churn and
become an Android user or be a customer
support burden. All these other things
they want to preserve the experience on
their devices because that's how they
make money long term. That's how Apple
operates as a business. It is so
obviously the case that if you think
otherwise, you're operating in bad
faith. Okay,
>> I love Battergate now. I used to hate
it. I used to detest the fact that this
happened because it gave bad people
ammunition against Apple that makes no
sense. And there are [__] things Apple
does that I want to talk about, like the
way they run the app store. I really
want to be able to talk about that. But
whenever I do and I make a video about
the [__] things Apple does, one of the
top comments is, "What do you expect
from a company that used to slow
people's phones down?"
Insta click, hide from channel. Because
that is a bad faith actor,
>> right? If you don't understand the
situation well enough to say that
confidently or choose to not listen to
the situation well enough so that you
can talk [__] on this thing. Either way,
I don't care which it is. If you're
misinformed or choosing to ignore
information, either or you are not
useful to me as a person, I will never
need you for feedback in my life.
>> If you are not interested in the facts
enough
>> to be a good faith actor when giving
like feedback on things,
>> go away.
>> Okay?
>> Like just like you're not interesting to
me. So a thing that is really important
to me is this filter system I've built
where if I see someone confidently
speaking incorrectly about a thing not
as like I tried this and this is what my
experience was because that's very
different if you if you go try upload
thing my product and you can't get it
working and have problems and give me
feedback as I am coming to you
inexperience here's how it felt to me
here's my understanding right
>> that's different from oh haha you're
wrong because thing I don't understand
>> okay
>> if you can't distinguish between those
things take some social classes is like
it'll help a lot. You'll be amazed how
much a therapist can help with these
things. But
>> the point I'm trying to make is if you
have these things that are known truths
that aren't like different opinions but
are facts that exist that are played out
in the course and information that is
known and you choose to operate against
those,
you are acting in bad faith and you have
no place in my life. I will never listen
to you for feedback. Okay. So, a lot of
the people that I've blocked and muted
on different platforms or hidden from my
channel comments,
this is all for this particular reason.
It's because I don't see you as a
valuable source of signal in my life. It
doesn't mean you can't talk. You can go
talk [__] on Reddit or whatever else all
you want. I'm not trying to ban you from
the internet. I'm trying to ban you from
my feedback system because I rely on
people who get it
>> to change [__] I've had times where
somebody left a comment that I thought
was kind of rude on my video and I went
and clicked to see what other comments
they left and all their other comments
were really positive and I was like,
"Oh, [__] I might have [__] up here
and unlisted the video immediately."
>> Okay.
>> Like a random commenter who I didn't
recognize. I was like clicking like,
"Oh, they must be a [__] I'm going to
ban." Wait, they've been really
supportive of me in the past. [__] Did
I overstep here? And I unlist just in
case, send it to some friends, get some
feedback, maybe re-edit, change some
things up, and then post it again.
>> Right.
But if I if you leave a rude comment on
my video and I check and you've left
rude comments on my last five videos,
you're gone. Right?
>> And to be clear, I don't delete
comments. I hide from channel. So if you
see your comment disappear, that means
YouTube deleted it, not me. And I'm so
tired because I've had people like go on
longass rants about how I'm censoring my
community or whatever that I can see,
which means I didn't censor them because
I've never once hit the delete comment
button. I often hit the hide from
channel button. Okay. And you'll still
see the comment if I hide you.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean that's I one question I did
have like um all these bad faith actors
like regardless of like uh eventually
you're going to post enough you're going
to get big enough to have bad faith
actors come into your comments talk
[__] Do you feel like your content
whether it's because of the style
whether it's because what you cover do
you feel like you guys you get more of
these like bad actors like trying to
[__] with you?
>> It has to be me like like none of those
other things are what matters. It it is
me. It's a combination of the the way I
present myself and my opinions. I don't
if I'm confident enough to talk about
it, I'm confident enough to talk about
it without too much nuance.
>> Okay.
>> If my takes are more nuanced on things
like there are things that are new like
all the startup conversation. It's part
of why I don't talk about it as much is
my takes aren't super hot beyond most
accelerators suck. I'm trying to be
nuanced and reasonable with those
because there's a lot of variation
there. But a lot of what I talk about is
coming out of either a deep
understanding or a deep frustration from
an understanding. And when I take those
hard stances, it's it's meant to correct
something that's going wrong. Something
that I perceive as just misinformation
being spread.
>> I love talking about the things that are
being treated with nuance that aren't
nuanced. Okay?
>> Like mobile app development frameworks.
If you think Flutter is a good solution
for your problem and you're not building
a game, you're probably wrong.
>> Okay?
>> It is.
I hate to just keep dunking on Flutter,
but it's such an easy target for this
particular type of thing because Flutter
is a game engine masquerading as an
application development ecosystem. Okay,
>> it is literally an abstraction like
similar to Unreal Engine or Unity that
has screenshots of random iOS like UI in
it that they stitch together to make it
look like a real iPhone app, but then
like accessibility is broken, screen
readers are broken. There are hacks to
fix it, but they don't actually work.
Random animation jank and stutter
happens all the time, even though it's a
thing it's supposed to solve. when new
features or new ecosystem changes like
Flutter will never have liquid glass
support. So the apps will never look
right on the iOS 26 and onwards because
they built it via screenshots and it's a
lot harder to handle the unique opacity
behaviors that way. They're not
literally PGs. I'm sure the comments
about to be there, but the the concept
stands. It's a bad solution for building
apps. It just you can't build a good app
with it. So I'm going to say that and
that's going to inherently piss people
off because they have an emotional
personal attachment. A lot of these
people have built their career around
the solution.
And I think what hurts them the most is
if I was saying things that were
obviously false, no one would give a
[__]
>> Okay.
>> The fact that my controversial takes are
semi-obviously true is the problem. The
fact that most companies shouldn't have
10 people dedicated to managing their
servers in the cloud is objectively
true. If you can pay 50K to a cloud
company to do it or you could pay 200k
times 5 to a team to do it, one of those
is responsible and one of those gets you
points on Twitter.
>> Right. Okay.
>> That is the thing I come out against
that gets me into [__] a lot is when I
when I see people taking obviously wrong
stances when you think about it at all.
I will gladly come out and put my foot
down
and that pisses people off a lot.
>> Yeah. I mean, I I I feel like even what
you were saying about like being a
content creator and a founder, like that
it's like you said, it's like a
semi-obvious truth that if people were
in your shoes, I think they would see.
But the fact of the matter is a lot of
the people, for example, that might be
playing the status game or want to be in
a position that you're in or e even wish
that they had access to what you had
because they believe it would solve the
problems that they're facing.
>> Um like things like that I think are
particularly controversial. Yeah, I try
to remember to put this point.
Stop getting advice from people who want
what you want. Get advice from people
who have what you want. Because there's
a lot of people
or there's a lot of carts being pushed
from behind by horses
where the person managing the cart is
shouting like, "Look, see this can work.
I'm moving. They're going like two
kilometers a day. You can move like
this." See, they don't have what you're
looking for. And the people who actually
have it, if you talk to like exited
billionaire founders, none of them are
saying you should be focusing on social
media. None of them are saying that your
goal should be to drop out of high
school and get into YC.
They're saying that you should work on
yourself and the things that you're
building. And when you have something
you want so badly, this is what will
happen.
>> I something I should have talked about
before.
>> I didn't want to be a founder. I
actively didn't. I disliked the startup
world for most of my time in college and
at Twitch and even for a year after
Twitch. Startups were not for me. I
disliked them. I did it because the
things I wanted specifically, I wanted a
better creator tooling ecosystem because
I was pissed for my time at Twitch when
I didn't get to build it and I thought I
would. And I wanted that so badly that I
was doing it anyways, not as a startup,
just doing it myself while applying to
work at other companies, right? And I of
the three companies I was interviewing
at,
uh, one declined me, two gave me really
good offers, but the founders of all
three said, "I think you should just go
do a startup video. You should go build
your own thing."
And then I still didn't do it, but my
good friend from Twitch, who I almost
made a company with because I liked him
so much. Him and I had a sit down
because I was working on this WebRDC
stuff and I showed it to him. He's like,
"How much I have to pay you to quit your
job and work on this full-time?" not as
like my employee but like as an
independent contractor because we need
this so badly for what we are doing at
our creator company
>> right
>> and that's when I begrudgingly turned it
into a real company and incorporated and
then hail married some applications to
some uh some accelerators got declined
from uh I got declined from South Park
Commons and then got into YC a week
later.
>> Okay.
>> So once again all the other accelerators
suck
>> but uh the point of this is that I
didn't want to be a founder. I had to be
>> okay.
>> And that's why it worked. It's not
because I wanted it. It's not because I
dreamed of doing this thing this way. I
actually was kind of opposed and a
little bit repulsed by the idea. I
really did not want to go down this
path. And then I had the like hardest
ego death, which is I no longer have a
person to blame.
>> Okay.
>> Up until that point, especially for like
the last two years before, I had had so
many instances where I was being blocked
on somebody else. usually above me,
sometimes around me, but almost always
there was another party screwing me
over. Be it like a really bad exec or
some misalignment on like the charter
that was causing my team to have to work
on [__] they shouldn't.
I was regularly blocked and would just
get really frustrated with whoever was
blocking me. Now I'm the one who blocks.
And
it was
one of the best things that ever
happened to me to get over that. To no
longer have someone else to blame ever.
I haven't been able to blame someone
else for anything wrong in my life for
years now. Every single thing that goes
wrong is 100% on me. And I love that. I
love it so much. Even if my team makes a
mistake, that's on me because if I was
more attentive, I was more involved in
code review. If I put more time in the
right places, I could prevent these
things. So whenever we have any issue
with T3 chat, whenever I have anything
that goes wrong on my channel, whenever
I piss off somebody, whenever I lose a
sponsor, all of those are my fault and
mine to own. And I love that. It took a
while. I hated it at first. I had to get
over a lot first, but that has been like
the best thing for me. So it ended up,
even if this all failed, it was worth it
for me to get over that part of myself.
But
that was the thing that had to change.
Do you think being put in that situation
where you were the only one to blame,
you had to take full accountability of
everything that happened? Do you think
that taught you a lot about yourself and
what you were actually interested in in
terms of what you want to do in the
future and who you actually were?
>> No, cuz I still don't know any of those
things.
>> Okay.
>> I people seem to think I have some crazy
long-term plan or road map here. I don't
know what I'm doing tomorrow. I I went
with the flow until I got here. I didn't
have some grand plan to be a successful
founder. I didn't have some grand scheme
to be a big YouTuber. I became a founder
because I was bullied into it
effectively. I became a YouTuber because
I was going insane not talking about
these new tools and frameworks I was
interested in. I was doing a lot of
Twitter spaces with my friends where I
would talk about them when I had like
500 followers on Twitter. I built what
became the T3 stack. I showed it to some
friends in the space. They thought it
was cool, but it was hard to just talk
about. I wanted to show them.
>> I wanted to stream a bit more, too,
because I was building tools for
streamers. So, I streamed myself
building with the T3 stack for the first
time. That was my first YouTube video.
My second YouTube video was when Dan
Abramov was asking to do mock job
interviews because he thought it'd be
interesting to see what someone like him
being interviewed would be like. And I
watched the other interviews he did and
they all sucked. I've interviewed over
500 [__] people. I care a lot about
interview like practice and culture. So
I asked if he would do one with me even
though I was a nobody. He kind of
recognized you from the React community
so he said sure. I also had made a music
recommendation to him a while before
that he really liked. So he had positive
association with me. Brought him on. No
offense to the other creators who did
their interviews. They made better
videos than I did.
>> Okay,
>> I did a much better interview and had a
lot more to teach about how to give a
good interview. Mine was a useful
resource. The others were good content.
>> And those are my first two videos is a
different way of building with modern
technologies
>> and the right way to do job interviews.
That was obviously going to blow up even
though the video sucked. I go back and
cringe. I hate watching them because I
was so bad at YouTube. But those existed
because I had needs that needed to be
met. I needed a video to explain my
stack in the way I built because just
doing it in Twitter spaces over and over
wasn't clear enough. And now I had a
thing I could link and show you. And the
interview thing is because I wanted
better education around how to give good
job interviews because I was so annoyed
at that point. Those are two videos I
made because I felt like I had to, not
because I wanted to be a YouTuber, not
for any other reason other than I'm
annoyed about these things. I need these
resources to exist. I'll make them
myself. And then did
>> right. And those both of those videos
are over 300k place.
>> So it it seems like a lot of the things
that you do end up doing comes from this
place of like endless need to do it.
Like for example, I spent the last
couple hours with you. You showed me
around the office and it seems like
every single thing in your apartment is
completely intentional. There's like no
stone left unturned from cameras to
microphones to networking to video
setup. I
>> Where does that passion like where does
that come from? the ability or the want
to go so deep into everything you do
because I feel like a lot of engineers
sort of miss that. Um, they don't have
that and it's something that I think a
lot of people would like to cultivate.
Did you just always have it? Is that
>> If I knew where this came from, I'd be
way more successful.
>> Okay.
>> I uh
I can't help myself. I've just always
been like this. I go way too deep on the
things I care about and I ignore
everything else. I don't know jack [__]
about TV or film. I haven't watched a
new TV show in probably 5 years. I watch
a new movie in like eight. I just don't
care. It's just not what I'm into. But
the things I'm into like YouTube, music,
skateboards, tech, AV, software dev,
frameworks, AI,
>> I get into the things. And uh sometimes
it actually really frustrates me. Like I
wasn't that into AI until end of last
year. Deepc V3 just [__] blew me
away. And that's when I started getting
deeper when I like read their research
papers, played with their models. And
this was before even R1. I was like,
"Holy [__] this is groundbreaking."
That's why I ended up making T3 chat as
V3 chat because I hated the Deep Seek
Chat app. So, I made my own, added other
models, and spiraled from there. The
thing that really frustrated me is there
was a lot of AI influencers, and when I
would read what they posted and what
they talked about, I felt like I
couldn't understand it. It was kind of
gibberish.
It took me two months to get ahead of
most of them, and now it's like, oh,
that's cuz it is gibberish. They don't
even know what they're talking about.
And the fact that there are people
who've been doing this for two years
that understand it worse than I did
after two months pisses me off. It's one
of the few things that actually
aggravates me in the world that there
are these people who are seen as trusted
resources of a thing that they don't
understand.
>> It genuinely
>> deeply irks me that that is the case.
And this happens with the startup world
too. There's a lot of people who did not
have successful businesses, who did not
have successful exits that give a lot of
advice about how to run a company when
theirs failed, right?
>> It's alarmingly common.
>> And it's just those things annoy me.
>> But the passion, I don't know where it
comes from. I think it's just me. Like,
>> okay,
>> I have enough things I like that there's
no reason to waste time doing things I
don't.
>> Okay.
>> Like, there's enough [__] that's going
on that I care about, that I'm invested
in, that any time spent on other things
is wasted time.
>> Okay?
>> But at the same time, there are things
like like I have to do all the paperwork
for my company still. I have to run a
lot of [__] for my business.
Okay? There's two tangents I want to
make sure we can go down now that I'm
here. The first is like how I think
about hiring. And the more important one
to like better answer this question is
how can you somewhat force this
yourself? Because I learned this tip
from someone and it helps me a bit but
I've seen it help others way more. Okay,
>> I'll start with that. Make sure we get
back to the hiring one. So
>> cringe as it is, this was a Sam Alman
tweet that I was really impressed with
that I have sent to a lot of others that
has helped them a lot too.
I can't remember the exact wording but
it was along the lines of
I started asking it was someone else
told him to do this and the quote was
ask yourself what someone with 10x more
agency would be doing right now.
>> Okay.
>> And then do that.
>> So if you were 10 times
>> more
hardworking if you were 10 times more
likely to do the thing you do just
having more agency with [__] that
matters. If you were 10 times better
with that, what would you be doing right
now?
>> Then go do that. You don't need the
agency to operate like you have it.
>> You need to think about what it would
look like if you had it and then do
that.
>> Right?
>> I I have it to an extent. Sometimes it
brings me down things that don't matter.
Like I've spent way more time and money
on cameras than I ever need to. As soon
as I had the S52X, I could have been
done. And I was for two years. And then
the S1 came out and I fell back down the
rabbit hole cuz who I am as a person.
But
caring enough to get started is
important. And knowing what it looks
like to care more is important. I think
you can push through at that point. I
don't know cuz that's not how I work. I
just I like the things I like. And the
the blessing I have isn't even that I'm
good at getting into things. It's I'm
good at tapping out.
>> Tapping out.
>> Yeah. Knowing when I've gone far enough
and this is a good place to stop
>> really.
>> That is my best skill by far. That that
is the thing that makes me special if
anything does. I feel like the point at
which you tap out is farther than most
people like even experts in the field
would ever even venture.
>> Yes. But then I'm good.
>> Okay.
>> And that's what's fun. Like I I tapped
out on cameras for two years once I got
this camera that I have two of and one
other with the same sensor in it. I was
like, "Oh, this solves all the problems
I have with cameras. I don't have to be
watching camera reviews anymore. I don't
have to be paying attention to what's
going on with lens anymore. My problem
solved. I'm done here." And then a thing
I was excited about came out and I like
went down the rabbit hole a bit again. I
still have all the knowledge I had, but
I'm not building it anymore. Right? The
the first time I remember this happening
was with keyboards.
>> I was a big keyboard guy. I went all in
building custom keyboards, making custom
firmware, all that.
>> Then I got the Vortex Poker 3, which was
a 60%, so no 10 key, no D-pad or
anything. Just tiny little like similar
to MacBook keyboard, but without the
D-pad at the bottom.
>> Had really good default bindings, really
good switches, and it was good enough.
It was the first time I had a keyboard
where I didn't want to change anything
on it.
And I immediately stopped caring about
keyboards. That was the last good
keyboard I like bought or was invested
in. I've bought like similar things just
when they wear out here and there. And I
I'm trying the one with the like
magnetic analog switches for gaming and
it's like slightly better for gaming but
way worse to type on. But I've gotten
I've literally bought two keyboards in
10 years after buying like three every
quarter. Like I would almost buy a
keyboard a month for years and I went
from that to one every 3 years because
once I had what I was looking for I was
done. I was like cool I'm good here. I'm
happy. And this happens with the
technology choices I make too. Like I
spent a lot of time hopping between
databases and solutions. I'm so happy
with convex now. I don't see myself
switching anytime soon. I'm just less
interested in other solutions. Now
people come to me asking about these
other five databases. The way I would
have answered three months ago would
have been to go look into them and then
give my thoughts. Now I just can't be
[__] bothered. I'm happy with where
I'm at.
>> Most people tap out way too early.
>> The remainder almost never tap out at
all. I'm very fortunate to be somewhere
between where I I'll hit a point of like
satisfaction,
content with where I'm at, and then I'm
just I'm done. I've lo it's not that
I've lost interest. It's that I've lost
agency to keep going further.
>> Okay. And how does that tie back to
hiring? The hiring was the other tangent
I want to go on, which is the like
mostly doing things I love.
This can become a mistake really quickly
because if you outsource the things you
don't like doing, you will be a [__]
manager. You'll be a [__] recruiter and
hirer. You will be really [__] at giving
feedback and making sure things are
going well and you'll have no insight on
that part of the business. If you hate
doing sales emails, you will hire a
salesperson, be a [__] manager for them,
pay no attention at all. When they churn
in six months, you'll have no idea what
happened.
But if you like engineering and hate
sales, hire an engineer. You'll be a
great manager for them. You're going to
live vicariously through them because
you don't have to do code anymore.
They're doing the code and now you have
to go do the other things that you've
been putting off like doing sales
emails. And that helps so much with like
the way you think about what you do.
Hire when you would miss doing it,
right?
>> Not because you don't want to do it.
>> Interesting. So, a lot of the things you
do go down like are things that you
actually hate dealing with in the first
place.
>> Uh, yes. but in a different way. Like
like it's not the same level of
obsession.
>> The best example I have of this is
editing video.
>> Okay.
>> I did not like editing video much. I
knew how to do it. Like I was editing
skate videos when I was a kid forever,
but I didn't
I didn't care for it. And I'm a busy
CEO. I have a channel that's doing well.
I can't be editing my own videos. So I
had an old friend come in and edit my
videos for me. He wasn't technical, but
he like knows computers pretty well.
Like wrote some scripts for his GTA
hacks here and there.
>> Sure.
did a pretty good job of editing my
videos, but I just fully got detached
from my channel and what made it work
and how it ran. I still did halfish the
thumb, actually I did all the thumbnails
myself until somewhat recently, but I
didn't do the editing at all. I just
threw a vod at him and said, "Make this
a video." Yeah.
>> And it was not a good experience for
him. It wasn't a good experience for me.
I brought him on to help me with sales
at Ping until ping the product failed
and I had to lay off a bunch of people
watch my startup video for that.
And at that point, I didn't have the
budget to justify bringing him back on
for editing. And also, like even just
when I hired him, I didn't have him as
an editor anymore. So, I started editing
my own videos because they needed to be
done. I had to. And then I fell in love
with editing.
>> Really,
>> I I will be editing video way past me
being on camera. I will be editing
video. Like, realistically speaking, I
probably got three to five years on
camera in me left. I'll be editing until
like the [__] day I die. I I actually
love video editing now. It became a
thing I never thought I'd care about
that I really genuinely enjoy doing.
>> Okay. Which part of the process? Because
I know you mentioned FaZe does a lot of
>> I I've edited two videos in the past
like six months. I don't get to do it at
all anymore. And I had hired and let go
of like four editors up until FaZe.
>> Got it.
>> And after letting go of like the last
one, I just did all the editing myself
again.
>> Right.
>> FaZe had hit me up when I was first
looking for an editor and I didn't even
see the DM because I get too many DMs.
He'd hit me up much later about a random
skateboarding thing. get back into
skating.
>> I was like, "Oh, that's a really cool DM
to get." And just chat with him a bit.
Scroll up in our DMs like, "Wait, you
hit me up for editing. I'm so [__]
busy right now. I love editing. I'll
miss it a lot.
>> You seem cool. Down to come in and help
a bit."
>> And the fact that this is the first time
I brought on an editor
when I liked editing made all the
difference in the world. A lot of it is
phase. He is uniquely [__]
incredible. He's one of the hardest
workers, most consistent, motivated
people. Like if a thing needs to be
done, it will be done and it will be
done as quickly as reasonably possible.
Like dude was moving and still got two
videos out during the move.
>> I I don't know how he operates the way
he does, but he is [__] exceptional.
The thing that made it work is a
combination of him being exceptional and
me finally caring enough to be a good
person to work for. I was You'd have to
ask him. I can't say confidently myself,
but from the last couple times I've
checked in, from what I've heard from
others, he thinks I'm like the best boss
ever. and is so absurdly grateful for
getting to work with me. He's sees it as
me giving him an opportunity. I [__]
don't. He earned it harder than anyone.
>> But a lot of why it works is that I get
excited when he does exceptionally well.
Like when I see a new style of intro
that he cuts that looks way better, I
see it. I'm like, "Holy [__] how did
you do this?" And he sends me like the
screenshots of Final Cut and like shows
you the plugins he used. And
>> we get to go toe-to-toe with editing
stuff here and there, too. Like I'll do
a video like once every month or two and
he'll watch it, obsess over the details
and try to copy parts of what I did and
use that in his own work. And then I'll
see stuff he does and either steal from
him or send him the asset and make him
do it for me. It's it's such a fun give
take.
>> Even if I'm not doing it every day,
>> I'm a better boss because I want to be
doing it every day and I can have better
conversations. And if you're an engineer
that's had a job before,
>> I hope you never had a boss that isn't
technical because it [__] sucks to
have a a boss who doesn't understand
code as a coder. Yeah. And you go to
them, you're like, I just spent the last
week rearchitecting this system. I
changed all these things. Our SLAs's are
15% better.
>> We now have three nines of uptime. I can
contribute much more easily. We killed
all these old dependencies. I'm so
pumped. We got this done. And Ross is
like, "Oh,
>> cool.
>> When's that ticket going to get closed?
It's the worst feeling in the world. It
really is. And I think you're destined
to do that if you're too focused on
getting the things you don't like doing
out of your way instead of getting the
things you do like doing out of your way
so you can go fix the things you hate.
>> Right. Well, I think it's undeniable
that like everything it seems like
you're doing you enjoy like immensely.
And I think that's a that's something
that's a really big accomplishment. I
think a lot of people would sort of love
to be in a position or
you know be in a position where they
could do the same thing that you're
doing. And I know it's like like one
thing I wanted to touch on is like um
your advice not just like for tech, not
just for engineers, but like for people
finding out what they want to do other
than like would you say just trying [__]
and like following whatever they're
actually interested in is like sounds
like how you did it. Do you think that's
the right way to go about it? Yeah, it's
most people either plan too much and
ship too little or ship too much and
plan too little.
>> Okay.
>> Violently oscillating between the two
will always be the strategy, but it
should be driven by building and
executed by thinking. But like I think
the best way to get started with
anything is to go try it.
>> Okay?
>> Be a little analytical to figure out
what is and isn't working. If you hit a
wall, take a step out and think through
what the wall is and why you hit it. And
then try to power through it once you
understand it better. But the
the vast majority of people either start
with planning then execute and end up
spending too much time in planning and
never execute or only execute, don't
plan and just run into walls over and
over. Sometimes they power through
usually they don't. But starting with
execution, hitting a wall, planning as
little as possible to get around it, and
then executing again. Like doing that
over and over will get you to much
better places much faster. You'll learn
more. You'll be more successful. You'll
just be generally happier, too.
>> Okay? And to be clear, this is like
general life advice. This isn't just
like, you know, planning and executing
shipping startups or anything.
>> Yeah. This is how I do everything. Yeah.
And if it always comes back to a thing
you wish existed, like every video on my
channel is a video that if someone else
had done it, I would have watched.
>> Every product I build is a product. If
somebody else had built it, I would have
used it. Every piece of advice I give is
advice that if I was given five years
ago, I probably would have ignored, but
it would have haunted me some amount.
>> Okay. The goal here is to just do things
that meet my bar,
>> right?
>> Which mostly just means I'm really it's
trying to the right way to put this
point. I'm both
really self-critical and really not in a
way where on one hand I'm good at
realistically critiquing myself under
the lens of a consumer of my stuff
because I I watch so much YouTube. I can
watch one of my videos and not see it as
my video. Yeah,
>> which is so good, so helpful. But on the
other hand,
I'm very like self-aware of like my
biases, my tendencies, my interests, and
I use that to make better content to
make things that that meet the interests
that I have.
>> Okay.
>> So, on one hand, I am placating myself
directly. I am I am trying to make
content targeted to me as a person. On
the other hand, I can remove myself from
my persona and consume my content and be
like, I can tell you how many times I've
been shown like somebody's posted a
quote from me. I was like, that's a
banger quote.
Wait, you're saying I said that?
>> I had no memory at all of saying the
thing.
>> But that's just how I operate. I I do
the things that I
>> that I want. Okay. the things that I
wish existed, the things that I need in
my life, I do that
and that drives me to good [__] most of
the time.
>> Last question I have for you. I'm
curious. What is something that you want
to talk about? You wish someone would
ask you that you think people should
know and nobody's asked you. You haven't
had a chance to talk about it.
There's a ton of silly ones. There's one
that I've I've snuck into some [__] but
no one's ever like no one's asked with a
platform. I get asked occasionally on
the line. It's a how do I get good at
public speaking and like just talking
these things out.
>> Okay,
>> and it ties back to the last thing a
bit. Editing.
>> Okay,
>> there is no better way to humble
yourself and better understand how you
are perceived than to edit your own
videos for a while. You will become
hyper aware of every filler word you
use, of everything you in, of everything
that you mispronounce, of every stammer
like I just did there. Make sure you
leave that in for the edit.
>> Okay?
>> You become hyper aware of how you speak
and how you're perceived and you will
immediately start to course correct
accordingly
>> because you'll be thinking in terms of
what is this going to be like to edit.
And now I'm at a point where if I'm I am
public speaking, like I'm in front of a
mic on a stage, I'll instinctively do
the thing I do when filming where if I
pronounce one word wrong near the end of
a sentence, I'll go and then go all the
way back to the start because it makes
the edit easier,
>> right?
>> And that makes me actually kind of worse
at speaking on a stage, but it makes me
way better at filming and recording and
generally also better at just having a
casual conversation. Like you were
talking to me for a while at our table
before doing all this. Am I talking any
differently than I did at the table?
>> It's the exact same. I'm I am who I am.
>> But my ability to get the idea out of my
head
>> got much better when I started editing
my own videos. I'd go as far as to say
that like as much as I like [__] on the
idea of most people being a creator,
>> it will help a lot as long as you like
do these details yourself just to get
like it will get you better at speaking.
So if that's a thing you want that you
really want to improve at, you want to
just be easier to understand,
making a small YouTube channel with no
expectation for it to be successful at
all so that you can just talk about
things you care about, edit them
yourself, and get better at presenting
your ideas, that is inherently really
valuable. And it's also why every AI
video editing startup makes me want to
blow my brains out. Every 2,000 subtuber
that's trying to hire an editor is a
[__] [__] And why the vast majority
of content that I see random dev people
make is utter garbage. Because they're
all trying to avoid the thing that's
scary, which is listening to their own
voice. Why the [__] are you making me
listen to your voice if you're not
willing to do it?
>> You need to be the first customer for
everything you do. You need to be the
first user, the first listener, the
first fan, the first consumer of every
[__] thing you do.
>> And for me, editing helped me so much at
understanding
>> both what was good about my content,
more importantly, what wasn't. And I
became much easier to understand, just
way better at speaking in general.
That's part of why I hate watching my
old videos. I was horrible at speaking.
And I just got good at it because I did
it a bunch. I edited it a bunch. I
became really self-aware of those
things, right?
>> And I've given this advice to some
really big YouTubers. I I should get her
permission to name drops. There's a a
really big one that has been like she
came to an event that we were at
together crying because a month or two
before we had done a call. She was
struggling with her YouTube a bunch,
>> right? and she had like a team of
editors and all this. I was like, I I I
hate to tell you this because it sucks.
You have to fire everyone.
>> Yeah.
>> You have to do your own thumbnails for a
bit. I [__] love thumbnails. I have
so much fun doing thumbnails. I miss it
a ton. I I've made over 3,000 thumbnails
in four years. It's insane. I I love it.
But, uh, you have to do your own
thumbnails. You have to do your own
editing, plan your own topics, figure
this out yourself because you'd
understand what doesn't and doesn't work
for you right now because you're so
removed from the process.
>> Yeah.
>> By the way, it'll help you with your
speaking, too. It's like a small aside
from it, but the main thing is you need
to understand your content pipeline
better. She came out to be crying
because she had a really thick accent
and still does to an extent. But all of
a sudden, she was so much easier to
understand. She gotten so much better at
speaking in literally a month. And it
like had an emotional impact on her when
she saw me. It like hit her how much
better it was cuz she was she spent the
whole day at this event talking to
people and didn't feel like she had to
repeat herself anymore like she always
had to. And like got you just get used
to when people don't understand you,
they're like, "Yeah." Because they
didn't quite hear what you said and
they're tired of asking to hear it
again.
>> Fixing that changed her life. And then
separately, her boyfriend came up to me
not knowing this had just happened. It's
like, "By the way, thank you so much for
getting her to start editing her own
videos." She's like, "She feels so much
better about how she talks now." It was
like that was not the reason I gave her
that advice. It just happened to be a
really cool side effect of it. So that
like that that's the one random thing I
could think of when you ask for
something I don't get asked about a lot.
The amount that editing helped me
speaking is hard to put into words and
it that's like other than maybe like
getting on Accutane and fixing my teeth
that is like those are the three things
that have given me the confidence I have
today and like I why I'm like proud of
how I present myself as much as I am
now. It's I am way easier to understand
and I don't see the flaws that I saw
before. And those things are probably a
big part of why people hate me now
because it gave me confidence that I
didn't have before. But it's it's a
really cool thing to have to to always
have confidence that the way you phrase
the thing is understandable.
And then it has the fun side effect of
if somebody still doesn't understand it,
you start to think they're operating in
bad faith and you get annoyed. But
that's a whole separate rant I could do
another two-hour podcast on. So,
>> but yeah, uh get good at speaking if you
care about it and editing for yourself
will help a ton. If you're hiring an
editor before you're making money on
your channel, you're making the same
mistake I made four separate times.
>> Get good at the details if you want to
be good at the thing.
>> Theo, thank you so much, man.